Please compare the similarities and differences between Next.js and React. A high-level overview is sufficient (up to a couple of paragraphs). No need to write an essay!
<br/><br/>
# **Answer:** 
Both React and Next.js are popular tools that developers use to build user interfaces and web applications—they both do this using a component-based architecture. The key thing to remember is that while they share a lot in common, Next.js is actually a framework built on top of React. This means all the cool features and functions you find in React are inherently available in Next.js. They can and are often used together, but depending on your use-case, you’ll notice some key differences.
But first, let’s dive into a few of the similarities!
<br/><br/>
# <span style="color: palegreen;">Component-based Development:</span> As mentioned above, both platforms emphasize breaking down the UI into reusable components. Keeping engineers in mind, this allows for development to be more scalable and modular. Structure is key—technologies are ever updating and changing—and with the use of components, this ensures technical debt is kept to a minimum.<br/>
# <span style="color: palegreen;">JavaScript XML and Typescript support:</span> With a focus on web-based applications, support for JavaScript is essential. Luckily, both React and Next.js support JSX and TypeScript to allow for widespread adoption by existing developers. Those familiar with either framework or library will be able to pick the other up without much ramp-up.
<br/>
 …and now the differences <br/><br/>

# <span style="color: indianred;">Routing:</span> One of the main differences between the two is how routing is handled. In React, there is no built-in routing functionality, and it's typically handled by a third party (e.g., React Router) allowing higher complexity and control. Next.js, on the other hand, focuses on simplicity and requires no additional setup to ease the go-to-market time—routing capabilities are built-in! It delivers an out-of-the-box solution immediately and requires less manual configuration, making it perfect for those who want to develop and maintain their web apps quickly and effortlessly.
<br/> 

# <span style="color: indianred;">API integration:</span> React is purely a front-end library and does not include any server-side or API-handling capabilities. In contrast, Next.js has built-in API routes capability, allowing you to create backend logic and server-side APIs directly within the same project.


